The expression used in our day's text, the word used, is over-reached.
And what comes to mind when we hear someone that has been over-reached?
Well, to over-reach means to get better off, or get the better off,
especially by deceit or trickery, to outwit, to overtake, to over-power.
And so we have to be very careful at all times, because our enemy, the devil,
is out to trick us, deceive us, overtake us on any occasion possible.
And he has quite a variety of tactics, doesn't he?
In fact, the Bible in Ephesians 6-11 describes these as the crafty acts of the devil.
Now, our context of today's text in the background helps us to illustrate just two of those tactics.
We invite you to open your Bibles to sect of Corinthians 2.
And in Paul's first letter to the Corinthians, the congregation had been affected by a man
who had been over-reached by Satan, being involved in very gross sexual immorality.
When on top of his being over-reached, the congregation was tolerating it.
And so what did Paul tell them in very clear terms?
You must hand such a man over to Satan, remove the wicked person from among you.
Well, the congregation responded, and eventually this very man who had been living such an immoral life really repented.
And now permissiveness and tolerating badness was no longer the issue, what was the issue?
Now a matter of forgiving such a man.
In 2 Corinthians 2, we read verse 6,
this rebuke given by the majority is sufficient for such a man.
Now you should instead kindly forgive and comfort him so that he may not be overwhelmed
by excessive sadness.
And who was behind that ploy of excessive sadness, verse 11,
so that we may not be over-reached by Satan for we are not ignorant of his designs.
So the devil will use whatever, the temptation of sexual immorality,
being overly permissive, or being harsh, unforgiving, and lacking mercy.
Both of those tactics can be very effective in taking Jehovah's people away from their Heavenly Father.
But on this matter of temptations when it comes to sexual immorality,
let's just briefly talk about another tactic that the devil uses.
He can convince someone that they can taste or toy with things that might be unclean or are unclean,
but there will be no lasting harm or no serious consequences to that.
They may even touch something unclean and nothing apparently bad has happened and they conclude that it's okay.
But such a person is forgetting the unchangeable law of Jehovah as recorded in Galatians 6.7.
Whatever a man is soying, this he will also reap.
Now, just illustrate that how the devil can use bait and convince somebody that they're not really into any kind of trouble,
and yet he will catch them.
We're going to tell you an account that goes back many years.
There was a group of young men at a freshwater lake and they were fishing.
And they could look down into this lake and they could see these big bass, beautiful fish.
And they tried all sorts of lures.
They tried worms on hooks, artificial lures. Those big fish would not bite.
But then an older gentleman came along and he said, give me one of your worms.
And he took the worm without the hook and he threw it out in the vicinity where these big bass were.
And a bass came and he took the worm.
He said, throw another one without the hook.
Throw it, the bass took it.
And now he said, put the worm on the hook and cast.
The fish was caught.
What is the lesson?
The devil will give us bait sometimes and it appears that it's very pleasurable.
There's nothing wrong here. It's harmless.
But with the devil, there's always the hook, always the hook that can cause spiritual, emotional, mental, and even physical harm.
It can literally cost us our life if we get tricked to thinking that uncleanness will not hurt us.
Now, besides pleasure and the temptations that go with that, the devil will also use pain and suffering.
For example, in the experience of Job, he lost his material possessions.
He lost his children. He got very ill.
That caused all sorts of physical and emotional pain.
Not pleasure.
And with all that he was going through, then his so-called friends come to comfort him and they accuse him of all sorts of bad attitudes and actions.
And they even put doubts in Job's mind or try to that Jehovah couldn't be pleased anyway.
Well, that was one of the toughest tests that he faced.
This from with his friends and the words that they said.
Well, commenting on this, the August 15th, 2002 watchtower said this about how a great test can come from our fellow worshipers.
It says this, Satan still makes use of misguided counsel or thoughtless spring marks from friends and fellow believers.
Discouragement from within the congregation can undermine our morale more easily than persecution from without.
And then this article went on to explain that there was a brother serving as an elder, but he had seen active combat in the army.
There were two terrible things.
But when he faced criticism, thoughtless remarks, and was hurt by his fellow workers in the congregation, what did he say about those tests within the congregation?
He says, it's the hardest thing I've ever been through in my life.
So what can the devil use?
You can say or do things sometimes, and the devil will play on that and amplify that and cause one to stop serving Jehovah.
Well, obviously there's a variety of crafty acts, and we've only covered just a couple of them this morning.
But what do we do to protect ourselves?
James 4.7 says, therefore, subject yourselves to God, but oppose the devil.
When we do that, we always must remember the model prayer given by Jesus, where he said, deliver us from the wicked one.
Now, why is that so important?
Well, we bear Jehovah's name, and he is very anxious to protect his name, and he loves us very much.
And like any loving father, if he saw one of his faithful sons going through a terrible trial by someone that was trying to kill him, that father would respond quickly, wouldn't he?
Well, how does Jehovah feel about us?
Well, let's open our Bibles to the book of Malachi, and just re-emphasize how much Jehovah cares for us, and why he would respond so quickly to our Christ for help to deliver us from the wicked one.
In Malachi 3 and verse 17, it says, and they will be mine, says Jehovah of armies.
In the day when I produce a special property, I will show them compassion just as a man shows compassion to his son, who serves him.
Well, that warm arrangement there, isn't it?
And Jehovah cares for us.
Other Bible translations, when it talks about special property, use these expressions.
My very own, my most prized possession, my jewels. Jehovah loves us.
And Jehovah will only allow the devil to go so far in testing us, only according to what Jehovah wills at the moment, for example.
Remember in the case of Job, when fire came down from heaven, and consumed Job's flock of sheep, and even some of his servants, the devil calls that fire.
But later in 1 Kings chapter 18, at the fire test at Mount Carmel, when there were two bulls, and the idea was to figure out who is the true God.
Jehovah or a bale, and those bale worshipers went from morning to night, crying out to their false god, and not one flicker of flame could be produced.
Jehovah would not allow the devil to even burn up one bull, in contrast to what he had done with all those many sheep.
Jehovah is in control.
And what Jehovah allows today, we can be sure, whatever he allows the devil to do, to cause this emotional pain, physical pain, to even persecute us, perhaps even kill some of us.
By means of his son Christ Jesus, Jehovah has made a way to break up the works of the devil completely.
So whatever happens, when we stay loyal to Jehovah, and we are on guard against the crafty acts of the devil, we will not be overreached.
No permanent harm can come to Jehovah's people by this deceitful treacherous enemy.
May all of us continue to stay on the alert. Be mindful of the devil's tactics.
Beg Jehovah to deliver us, and then we can be confident that our loving Heavenly Father will never abandon us.